Yulong, a jade dragon with snow-white scales, lived comfortably in a rock cave on the east bank of the Celestial River.  In the great forest across the river lived a beautiful golden phoenix, Fenghuang.  Each morning, the beasts chatted as the first rays of sunlight reflected oaff of the surface of the Celestial River. After catching up with each others lives, Fenghuang flew in the sky, while Yulong swam in the Celestial River.  One day both came to a fairy island, and there found a shining pebble of dazzling beauty.

"Look, how beautiful this pebble is!" Fenghuang said to Yulong.

"Let's carve it into a pearl," suggested Yulong.

Fenghuang nodded in agreement.  They started working on it, Yulong using his claws and Fenghuang her beak.  They polished the pebble day after day, month after month, until finally it was the perfect small round ball they imagined.  In high spirits Fenghuang flew to the sacred mountain to gather dewdrops and Yulong carried clear water from the Celestial River.  They sprinkled and washed the ball with the dew and water. Gradually the ball morphed into a dazzling pearl.  They had grown attached to each other through their endeavor and both loved the pearl dearly. Neither wanted to go back to their home alone, so they settled down together on the fairy island, guarding the pearl.

It was a magic pearl. Wherever its light shone, the world thrived. Trees became green year round, flowers of all seasons bloomed together, in harmony, and the land yielded a richer, more bountiful harvest.

One day the Queen Mother of Heaven left her palace and saw the brilliant rays shed by the pearl. Jealous of it's beauty, she was eager to have it for her own. She sent one of her guards to steal the pearl from Yulong and Fenghuang while they were fast asleep. When the guard came back with it, the Queen Mother was very pleased, and would not show it to anyone, but immediately hid it in the innermost sanctuary of her palace, behind nine locked doors.

When Yulong and Fenghuang woke up in the morning they found the pearl gone. Frantically, they searched high and low for it. Jade Dragon looked into every crevice at the bottom of the Celestial River, while Golden Phoenix combed every inch of the Sacred Mountain, but their efforts were in vain. Together, they continued their unhappy search day and night for months, looking everywhere, hoping to recover their beloved pearl.

On the Queen Mother's birthday, all the gods and goddesses in Heaven came to her palace to offer their felicitations. She provided a grand feast, entertaining her guests with heavenly nectar and celestial peaches, the fruit of immortality. The gods and goddesses all exclaimed, "May your fortune be as boundless as the East Sea and your life last long like the South Mountain!"  This was the highest, most coveted blessing to be had.

The Queen Mother was excited and impulsively declared, "My immortal friends, I want to show you a precious pearl the equal of which cannot be found either in Heaven or on Earth."

So she unfastened the nine keys from her girdle and unlocked the nine doors. From the innermost sanctuary of her palace she took out the bright pearl, placing it on a golden tray and carried it carefully to the center of the banquet hall. The pearl instantly illuminated the whole hall. The guests were fascinated by its radiance and greatly admired it.

Yulong and Fenghuang were not at the birthday party, as they were still searching without success for their precious pearl. Suddenly Fenghuang saw its bright light.

She called to Yulong, "Look, isn't that the light from our pearl?"

Yulong stuck his head out of the Celestial River and looked. "At last! No doubt about it! Let's go and get it back."

They flew towards the light, which led them to the palace of the Queen Mother. When they landed there, they found the immortals crowding around the pearl and praising it lavishly. Pushing through the crowd, Yulong and Fenghuang shouted together, "This is our pearl!"

The Queen Mother was so enraged by their claim that she snapped, "Nonsense! I'm the mother of the Heavenly Emperor. All treasures belong to me!"

Yulong and Fenghuang were infuriated by her remarks. They protested, "Heaven did not produce this pearl, nor was it grown on Earth. It was carved and polished by us. It took many years hard work."

Shamed and angry, the Queen Mother clutched the tray tightly while ordering her palace guards to throw out Yulong and Fenghuang. But they fought back, determined to recover the pearl from the Queen Mother. The three struggled over the golden tray with all their might. As the tray shook amidst the tussle, the pearl fell off, rolled to the edge of the stairs and then dropped into the air.

Yulong and Fenghuang rushed out of the palace, trying to save it from being dashed to pieces. They flew beside the falling pearl, until it slowly landed on Earth. When it touched the ground the pearl immediately turned into a clear, green lake.

Yulong and Fenghuang could not bear to part from it again, and so they changed themselves into a pair of mountains, remaining forever guarding the lake. Since then Jade Dragon Mountain and Golden Phoenix Mountain have quietly stood beside the West Lake.	
